Everyone, welcome to another lecture on problem solving.
And in this lecture, we're going to solve a very interesting problem, which is this solution to the
look.
So in this solution, what we are given, we are given by the slippery to local metrics.
So it says a local game and we need to write the function to fill the empty cells and we should follow
the two local rules while filling the cells again.
So for the input part, you can assume that all the cells which are not food, they will contain the
values zero.
So you need to replace these values which are zero then some valid value.
Okay, so there can be multiple solutions possible.
We want to print one possible solution.
Okay.
So let us let me give you a quick recap of what we do in this look.
So if it is a nine gross nine grid, then every row should contain the numbers from 1 to 9 and every
column should also contain numbers from 1 to 9.
And also every sub grid, which is a three by three separate in this case.
Okay.
So this upgrade, this upgrade, this upgrade.
So they should also contain numbers from 1 to 9 and no number should repeat.
Okay.
So no numbers should repeat either in the row or in the column or in the sub grid.
So if I give you one example, so maybe can you put one here, maybe we can maybe put in one may not
create a valid solution.
Okay.
So we don't know.
So what we have to do is we have to try all possible numbers at all possible locations.
Okay?
So this is what we will do.
Okay.
So we will what will do, let me tell you.
So let us think in terms of a brute force solution, how we can try out all possibilities.
Okay.
So how we can try out all possibilities.
So this is the only thing that we can think of in this case, and we will stop when we get one valid
solution.
Okay?
So we will stop once we get one valid solution.
So what are you going to do?
You started reading this great from left to right or from top to bottom.
So let's say we're going to go sail Brazil and latest standard and we see this is already filled.
Okay, so we will not modify the cells which are pre-filled.
So we jump to the cell.
It is again preferred we jump to this particular cell.
Now add this cell, you have an option to place all the numbers from 1 to 9.
Okay?
So you will say, okay, let me place one and let me try to solve this problem recursively and I will
come to know if a solution exists or not.
So how we can solve that is a problem.
We can make a recursive call on this sub.
Right?
Okay.
So if the cell is a comedy, that means we're making a recursive call on i, i comma.
Duplass one Okay.
So we are making a recursive call on the next column and recursion will do its work.
So what it will do, it will.
Okay, let me try to place a number here.
And by placing a number here, what we will check for is we need to check whether that number is valid
or not.
So can we place one here?
And this is because one is already there and the rule can replace the two here.
Maybe we can.
Maybe we can't.
Okay.
By looking at this row, this column and this abbreviated do doesn't come.
So let us please do and let us go to the next cell and try to solve this problem.
So this will be this problem.
This will be just a problem.
Now, these are problems.
They are going to tell the cell from which we made a call whether this problem can be solved by placing
do or not.
Okay.
So what do you do?
You say you check out given I accommodate if a number can be placed.
If a number can be placed.
Okay.
And what what is going do with that number?
So you will try for all the numbers for number in the range 1 to 9.
You check at a given cell.
If this number can be placed, that means it doesn't occur in draw.
It doesn't occur in column.
And it doesn't occur in the sub grid.
Okay.
If it can be placed, then you placed it.
You place it.
That means you say array of I call magic equals to that number and you solve this problem.
So you may be there.
Solve.
I come to the plus one and now this sub problem will tell you whether the number that you placed is
the right number for the optimal solution or not.
Okay, so maybe you might not be the best number.
Maybe we want to put five or six or seven or eight or nine something else.
Okay.
This function will tell you again either this is going to be true or this or this is going to be false.
You can make it a boolean function to tell whether this problem could be solved or not.
Okay.
If this problem could not be solved, you would write the next number.
If this problem can be solved.
You return.
Okay.
So what?
I will say try next.
If so, I'll return.
False.
Okay.
Otherwise you can simply say return to.
If that means your problem could be easily solved.
Okay.
So return true.
Otherwise.
Okay.
To try next basically means you go to the next step in the a look on try to do the work for the next
time but okay so this is how we're going to solve the problem.
So I hope you got an idea.
So the logic is very straightforward.
The only thing is you need to think of cognitive.
Okay.
Now let us also talk about basic is what would be the basic is okay.
So in the base case, you know, you keep on going like this.
Okay.
One corner gives not the basics, but one corner case would be when you reach end of the rule, you
need to convert this call into this court.
Look, so you can you can put it something like this.
If the column that is G becomes equal to nine, you go to the next rule, that means you put equal to
zero.
And so the equal to one and you put Jake will do zero.
So you do this step and you keep on going Roberto this way.
And finally you will end up at this particular rule.
Okay.
So you will end up.
Just after the last row.
And if you reach this particular point, that means your problem has been.
So.
So your final guess would be if I equals to nine.
That is, you have covered all the nine rows number from 0 to 8.
That means your your cross the last row then you're going to implicit are true that this problem can
be solved.
Okay.
And one final guess could be like this if you could not get any number.
Okay, so if you have tried all the number that you have placed, you could not get any number.
Then what you will get in that case you will say, okay, whatever number I have written.
Finally again, maybe you tried one, it didn't work.
Okay, let me just draw draw this particular cell you said.
Okay, let me put one here.
It doesn't work.
Let me put two here.
Doesn't work.
Let me put three.
Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
It doesn't work.
Then what?
Okay, so you have to write all the numbers here.
Now what?
What do you need to do?
You need to go back and find some other look.
Yes.
In that case, if you have tried all possibilities at the current position, that means there could
be some mistake in the beginning.
Maybe you have put the wrong number in the previous call or in the previous caller in the previous call.
You can simply say whatever number I have placed does make it zero because it doesn't work and return
false under false.
This we can we will do after this loop.
Okay.
So that means.
Yeah.
So that means we are going to do the backtracking.
We are going to go back and do some corrections.
Okay.
So this is a very high level logic.
And I will again give you a quick recap of what we are thinking of what we are going to do.
So the idea is you go to every cell, you place a number, you start with one.
If one can be placed, you place one.
If one cannot be placed, you place two, maybe two can replace.
But two is not the right number.
So how you will continue that?
By making a recursive call on the cell problem.
This problem will tell you whether two is right.
It says do is right.
You delete parent or the previous function.
Call that okay, this problem can be solved.
Okay.
If this says no, you cannot place two because I cannot solve this upgrade.
Then you say, okay, no, let me try three.
But three cannot be placed.
So you just give it three and you go with forward and you check for cannot four is not coming in the
role for it is not coming in the column but is not coming in the upgrade you place for you.
Make a recursive call that recursive call tell you whether you could solve the problem or not if let's
it's against as far as you put five five can replace you will do six.
Six cannot replace because it is here you go to seven.
Seven cannot replace because it is in the row.
You go to eight.
It cannot replace because it is in the column.
You go to nine, nine get on replace because it is in the sub grid.
Now what again, you still have a number for head and you need to remove this number.
You want to make it zero and you need to go back.
Okay, maybe you are to empty cell yet, but if in this case it doesn't work, you will still get it
done.
False.
So this returns false here this returns file where this returns filed here.
And this basically is the function that no such solution exists.
Okay, so this is how it is going to do the backtracking and the solution is going to really work well.
So in the next video, let us see the implementation with the recursion and a backtracking approach.
Okay.
So thank you.